# FlaskProject
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; In this, we can add, delete, update the employee details in database using web application. I used Flask framework to create this web application and connect with my database for that I used pymsql library. 

# Flask Library
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Flask is a web framework. This means flask provides you with tools, libraries and technologies that allow you to build a web application. This web application can be some web pages, a blog, a wiki or go as big as a web-based calendar application or a commercial website. Advantages of using Flask framework are: There is a built-in development server and a fast debugger provided. Lightweight.

# Templates
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; If your website contains only few pages, changing its style will take you some time but is doable. However, if you have a lot of pages (for example the list of items you sell in your store), this task become overwhelming. Using templates you are able to set a basic layout for your pages and mention which element will change. This way you can define your header once and keep it consistent over all the pages of your website, and if you need to change your header, you will only have to update it in one place. Using a template engine will save you a lot of time when creating your application but also when updating and maintaining it. <br> <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Here, I used five templates index.html, home.html, details.html, user.html, update_user.html: index.html file is the base for every other template, home.html file is welcome page for the web application, details.html file is to display the employee details in the table format in the web application, user.html file is used to get information of the employee and store it in database, update_user.html file is used to update the employee details in the database. <br> <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Once we add the details it will stored in the databse and display it in the webpage in the table format with two buttons Edit and Delete. If we want to edit then click Edit button it will render the update_user.html and then get the new details except ID and update into the database. Delete button is used to delete the employee detail in the database.

# pymysql library
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Besides reading data from MySQL databases, we can also use PyMySQL to perform other CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functions to manage the database. For example, we can execute a query that inserts a data record into the customers table. <br> <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; PyMySQL is a pure-Python MySQL client library, which means it is a Python package that creates an API interface for us to access MySQL relational databases. The documentation page states that PyMySQL was built based on PEP 249. It means PyMySQL was developed based on the Python Database API Specification, which was set to promote standardization of Python modules used for database access. The key reason for using PyMySQL is that it serves as a handy interface to interact directly with MySQL databases by incorporating SQL statements within the confines of Python scripts. It also means we do not require access to a separate RDBMS interface for running SQL queries needed for our downstream Python operations.
